So, now let's do a quick walkthrough
of the VPC that is created with your account
called the default VPC.
So, now all new AWS accounts will have a default VPC
and this is so that you can start,
you know, using it this right away.
So, new EC2 instances that are launched
into the default VPC if you don't specify any subnets.
And obviously when you start in your accounts,
you only have one VPC anyway.
So, the default VPC
will by default have internet connectivity,
so this is why our instance are being able
to access the internet and each EC2 instance within it
will get a public IPv4 address
and this is why we've been able to connect
to our EC2 instances right away when we created them.
We will also get a public and a private IPv4 DNS name
for our EC2 instances.
So, let's go in to the console
to have a look at this default VPC.
So, I'm in the console and we're going to have a look
at the VPC service.
So, the reason why we have a default VPC
is that if we didn't have one,
it will be very, very complicated for newcomers in the cloud
to start using AWS, okay?
But it is best practice if you know a bit
it was a networking that you create your own VPCs
in your production accounts
instead of using the default VPC.
So, this is the dashboard and on the left hand side,
there is your VPCs.
Now, as we can see one VPC is created,
there is no name, but it's called the default VPC,
because it's created by default, okay?
And as you can see there's an IPv4 CIDR block here
that is defined.
And what I can do is go to my website
and then calculate this range.
And as we can see, we can see where the first IP
of my range is.
Where is the last IP sets a /16 that means
that the last two octets of my IP can change.
So, the last two can change so all the way to .255.255
and we have 65,536 IPs possible in that range.
Okay, very handy.
And if we have a look at CIDRs, so again,
only one IP for CIDR has been created
and associated with that VPC.
No IPv6 CIDRs, flow logs are not enabled
and there are no tags, okay?
So, this is pretty good.
Now, if you look at all the options,
we have a look at main route table,
main network ACLs and so on,
so we'll have a look in the course
into what these are at one at the time, okay.
But let's just explore the menu for now.
So, we have three subnets already
and these subnets are linked to the VPC
that is the default VPC.
Now, each of these subnets by default
has its own IPv4 CIDR, okay.
And so if you have a look at on the right hand side
the availability zones as we can see
each subnet is in a different AZ.
And the reason is well, by default
we got three subnets across three AZ
to have a highly available architecture if we needed to.
So, these subnets turns out have these IPv4 CIDRs.
So, let's have a look at one of these for example, this one
and then I will calculate this new CIDR.
And so here's the first IP and here is the last IP.
And the total number of hosts is 4,096,
but it turns out that if you go back
into the subnets console,
the number of available IPv4 addresses is 4,091.
So, we'll have a look at why this is the case
and obviously it would be a lesser number
if you are already using this subnets, okay?
So, we'll try to understand why this is the case,
but there are five IPs are missing and we'll learn about it
in this course.
So, looking all the way to the right,
each subnet has a route table and a network ACL.
And as you can see there is a default subnet
and we have the setting auto-assign public IPv4 enable
that means that any EC2 instance created
into these default subnets will have a public IPv4, okay?
So, let's have a look at now the settings,
so the flow logs are not enabled for the subnets.
The route table is available,
so there is this route table that exists
and we'll have a look at it in the second.
And then there is network ACL and this is again,
we'll see in details where this is in this section, okay.
But it turns out that's all traffic on all protocols
from everywhere is allowed for inbound and for outbound.
So, that means that anything launched
into these subnets, okay.
Will be having network connectivity, which is good.
Now, for CIDR reservations,
there are none of them sharing,
so this subnet is not shared and there are no tags.
So, let's have a look at the route table.
So, the route table is helping your traffic
being routed through your VPC.
So, this is called a default route table,
a main route table and it turns out
that there are two rules,
will have a look at what this means later on.
But this one right here,
this one is pointing to all traffic, okay.
Outside of this CIDR, all traffic goes to
this internet gateway.
So, if we click on this internet gateway
and go here, so it's on the left hand side.
This internet gateway is attached to my VPC
and whether it does that it gives internet access
to my EC2 instances within my VPC.
So again, this is why are our EC2 instances
did gets internet access.
Now, we'll have a look at it again
in the later stage in details.
And if you look at the subnet association,
this route table is not explicitly associated
with any subnets, but it is implicitly associated,
because these subnets do not have a route table
assigned to it.
So, the main route table is by default going to be assigned
to them implicitly, okay?
And then we're good to go.
So, we've seen VPCs subnets, route tables, internet gateway
at a very high level, but hopefully
it gives you a little bit on understanding
as to why we were able to launch EC2 instances,
why they were getting specific kind of IPs and so on.
Now in this section,
we're gonna spend a lot of time having a look at
all these options and recreate our own VPC.
So, we'll understand exactly what VPC, subnet,
route table, internet gateway
and everything else here actually are made of.
So, I hope you're excited
and I will see you in the next lecture.